---
description: 'Year in review, 2020'
---

# 2018

## 2018

Lots to be thankful for this year. Likewise, there's lots to look forward to in 2019!

2018 was a year of growing, learning, and making many great memories.

I learned a lot about heath and fitness this year, and I have tried to implement a healthier lifestyle, which I hope to continue for the rest of my life.

### Stress

Thanks to my good friends, I've been a lot less stressed academically. Spring 2018 semester wasn't too bad, except for the final for one class, and the fall 2018 semester was pretty good! I would say I kept the stress level to a healthy level for 13/16 weeks in the semester. The last couple weeks I got a bit paranoid, but I am hoping that since I am aware of that, it will be easier to avoid that next semester.

I tried to meditate a bit every day, though I kind of fell out of practice in the recent months. I think I will return to it when I am not viewing it as a chore, because that kind of ruins the point. Right now, [insighttimer.com](https://insighttimer.com) is my tracker of choice.

### Sleep 8+ hours a night.

Have been pretty good about doing this in 2018! I usually try to be efficient with my time and go to bed early. I also just crash when I am exhausted anyways. For a summer speech class, I learned about the dangers of sleep deprivation, so it's pretty high priority for me to sleep. I plan to clean up the outline and post it sometime this year.

Currently reading [Why We Sleep](https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/Why-We-Sleep/Matthew-Walker/9781501144325) by [Matthew Walker, PhD](https://www.sleepdiplomat.com), an eye opener of why we need more sleep. Also made me feel less guilty when I took naps in Uni. I _love_ naps and recommend them to everyone.

### Exercise

I love to exercise since it helps me clear my mind.

Early 2018 was mostly filled with walks and weight lifting bc I couldn't run anymore due to an injury fall 2017. That problem got surgically fixed Summer 2018 and I am now back at it \(as of November 2018\) I am now running around 3-4+ miles about every other day and each run is really amazing because I _get_ to go for a run. I am excited to be able to run every day, once my body is ready for it.

Injury surely puts things into perspective! However, I am hoping to injure 0 things in 2019! Definitely appreciate that my problem was fixable and not something worse. Even when things were rough, I tried to keep that in mind. Recovering from an injury you've had bilaterally also teaches you to be patient and worry less.

I also plan to run a half marathon and a full marathon in 2019, which will be very cool.

I'm trying to strengthen my weak as hell arms, so in December 2018 I have implemented doing +1 pushups a day, inspired by [James Clear](https://jamesclear.com)'s system of doing things.

### Nutrition

Love to read [examine.com](http://examine.com) and [ labdoor.com](https://labdoor.com) and have tried a few supplements this year, somewhat sporadically. I definitely recommend reading thoroughly before trying any.

I've tried to watch what I eat, which is easy at home but can be tricky in the dining hall.

I think watching portions is much easier when you eat more slowly.

### Learning

I had a lot of fun learning how to code websites and mess around with layouts and design. This site's structure is based off of my art resources website, which I have worked very hard on this year.

That project has 50+ articles and has been acquired a nice social media following. It also taught me how to mess around with JS and forking other people's projects. I also wrote an anatomy ebook for that site, a fun project that has been mildly lucrative, thanks to the community that reads my art site. If you are interested, I can share the link with you.

On the academic side, I learned some interesting things about biology, chemistry, and physiology. I've also been reading some longer form philosophy articles online. In addition, I've been able to implement [anki](http://ankiweb.net) flashcards into my daily schoolwork workflow to greater success than previous semesters. It saved my life for my organic chemistry class and never felt that overwhelming, which it had in the past. I definitely recommend tinkering with it and slowly adding it to your study regimen. It for sure saves time!

Overall, I would say I've learned a great deal in terms of myself and academic knowledge. I also have figured out this year that like to over research anything I implement. I love to send myself down the rabbit hole and stress float in the overload of info the internet brings. I used to stress about this, but I think it's part of my nature that helps me with projects.

### Reading

Though definitely related to learning, I read a lot of good books this year, especially in the last third of 2018 where I aimed to read +20 pages a day, which isn't that much! That habit has definitely gotten the ball running and inspired me to finish a few books in like a day. I am not saying faster isn't better, but I was happy that I got into the reading rhythm towards the end of the year.

A standout was [**When Breath Becomes Air**](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25899336-when-breath-becomes-air) by [Paul Kalanithi](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/14031444.Paul_Kalanithi).

### Art

Haven't really completed any major colored pieces this year, but I have made strides in terms of anatomy and pencil control. I hope to rework some sketches into full pieces this year.

I keep most of my art private in my sketchbooks, but might post more once I figure out where I want to post. I am debating if I should try instagram again, but Fb which owns it is a creepy eyesore. Tumblr is litty, so I will probably continue to post there.I may end up posting a portfolio here, but who knows.

